![The author after getting married, donning a fabulous tweed
cap](wedding.jpg)

Hi! My name's Mark Wubben. I'm a humanist & technologist who loves working with
the web. In the above picture I'm wearing a fabulous [Irish tweed
cap](http://www.aransweatermarket.com/irish-tweed-flat-caps). You could <a
data-email="bcd1ddced7fcd2d3cad9d1ded9ceded3ced292d2d9c8">send me an email</a>.

Living in Haarlem (the Dutch one) I enjoy the [local
craft](https://www.jopenbier.nl) [beer
scene](https://www.brouwerijhetij.nl/?lang=en), as well as Scottish [single
malts](http://www.laphroaig.com/). You might spot me riding an white / orange
[Brompton bike](https://www.brompton.com/). You'll definitely see me at a
[Hawksley Workman](http://hawksleyworkman.com/),
[Whitehorse](https://www.whitehorsemusic.ca) or [Port
Cities](http://www.portcities.ca) gig. Priority podcast listens are [This
American Life](http://www.thisamericanlife.org/) & [The Talk
Show](http://daringfireball.net/thetalkshow/).

[Read about how this site is built](/colophon).

## Skills & Background

I've been working with the web professionally for over ten years. Initially a
front-end engineer I'm now interested in backend systems, JavaScript tooling and
product development. Currently I work as principal product engineer at
[Token](https://tokencard.io).

[Learn more about my skills and background](/skills-and-background).

## Projects

I'm the lead maintainer of [AVA](https://github.com/avajs/ava), a Node.js test
runner. I also maintain several other [Node.js modules](/projects/nodejs).

I once wrote a bunch of [Babel plugins](/projects/babel-plugins) and a [Let's
Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) /
[ACME](https://ietf-wg-acme.github.io/acme/) client named
[`wilee`](/projects/wilee). I also developed [Buoyant](/projects/buoyant): a
framework for building distributed systems using the [Raft Consensus
Algorithm](https://raft.github.io/).

Back in the ES5 era I wrote a small ecosystem of [functional promise-based
libraries](/projects/legendary).

## Elsewhere

I post the occasional [tweet](https://twitter.com/novemberborn) or
[photo](https://www.instagram.com/novemberborn/). I'm on
[GitHub](https://github.com/novemberborn) and
[Keybase](https://keybase.io/novemberborn).
