# Skills & Background

I've been working with the web professionally for over ten years. Initially a
front-end engineer I'm now more interested in building products as a whole. I'm
open to challenging projects, so feel free to <a
data-email="bcd1ddced7fcd2d3cad9d1ded9ceded3ced292d2d9c8">contact me</a>.

*Please, no external recruiters.*

I'm good at considering problems from multiple angles, including the
non-technical ones. I frequently work at different levels of abstraction, e.g.
implementing a feature across service boundaries. I'm diligent and care about
the work I deliver.

I've been writing [JavaScript](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262) for roughly 15
years now. For personal projects it's the language I move fastest with. I'm
happy to express code in other languages though. I've written and maintained
[Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/), [Python](https://www.python.org/) and
Java programs. I tend to have little difficulties with new languages or
frameworks.

I'm also experienced with [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/),
[Docker](https://www.docker.com/) and [CoreOS](https://coreos.com/).

I'm accustomed to contributing to open-source projects, for instance I'm part of
the team behind [AVA](https://github.com/sindresorhus/ava) and a collaborator on
the [nyc](https://github.com/bcoe/nyc) code coverage project.

## Background

Way back when in 2004 / 2005 I helped develop
[sIFR](http://www.mikeindustries.com/sifr), which used Flash to render headers
in custom fonts. I kept up maintenance until 2008. This was before [web
fonts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Open_Font_Format), of course.

I'm a contributor to the [Dojo Toolkit](https://dojotoolkit.org/). I wrote the
`dojo/promise` implementation that shipped in [Dojo
1.8](http://dojotoolkit.org/reference-guide/1.8/dojo/promise.html) back in 2012.
Subsequently I've been involved in the [Promises/A+](https://promisesaplus.com/)
effort, and have written some more [promise implementations](/projects/legendary).

From 2005 through 2008 I worked for [Q42](https://q42.com/) and
[Xopus](https://xopus.com/) (which was spun off from Q42 and later acquired by
SDL). Xopus provided a browser-based WYSIWYG XML editor for which I implemented
caret navigation in pure JavaScript. This replaced an earlier `contentEditable`
implementation.

Prior to their acquisition by Google in 2006 I was a summer intern with
[JotSpot](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Sites), in Palo Alto, California.

I've participated in [multiple](http://www.mediamatic.net/22590/en/badger)
[creative](http://www.mediamatic.net/52865/en/vbird)
[hacker](http://www.mediamatic.net/105826/en/ikspin)
[camp](http://www.mediamatic.net/167692/en/wow) events with
[Mediamatic](http://www.mediamatic.net/) and I've spoken at conferences like
[JSConf EU](http://jsconf.eu) as well as local meet-ups.

### State

From late 2008 through 2015 I worked with Mark and
[Alex](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexander_Asseily) Asseily, on what became
[State](https://state.com/). Initially remote from Copenhagen, Denmark, then
from 2011 in London, England.

I grew to be one of the lead engineers and took charge of the front-end
architecture. The site was always able to render server-side, first through
Rails and later Node.js. An internal framework was developed to render reactive
pages in 2011. (This was replaced by a React architecture in 2015.)

Early on the front-end was separated by the back-end through an API layer, which
grew to power Android & iOS clients. I was in charge of the API server and its
OAuth implementation, contributing to [RFC
7009](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7009).

As you can imagine I was involved with many more projects and challenges than I
can easily put into words here. I'd be more than happy to discuss these in
person.

## Minutia

I'm a Dutch national. I hold a Bachelor's degree from [University of
Twente](https://www.utwente.nl/en/). I'm fluent in Dutch and English and fairly
decent at comprehending German.
